Agile planning and estimating.
Yes, you plan and make estimates in Agile, but you just don't overdo it.
The longer the planning and estimating cycle,
the more you are trying to predict the future and it just can't be done.
You do not have a crystal ball.
Build a good plan and estimate that has a shorter duration,
both in the time to prepare the plan,
as well as the time to actually execute the plan.
You're not trying to estimate the whole project,
but just the list of priority features approved by the customer.
It's a very key point.
You're just going to focus on the priority features, approved by the customer.
This process works well with an existing system,
where you want to add new features.
Before a new system you're building from scratch,
sometimes this approach can have challenges and even possible flaws.
Now let's look at the customer's point of view for Agile.
If the customer doesn't buy into the Agile approach, does it matter?
Let's find out.
At some point your customer is going to ask, how much will it cost?
And when can I have it?
Customers still want to know how much will the entire system cost?
The budget, the dollars, and how long will the entire system take to build?
The schedule.
With the Agile approach you may not know how much it
will take to develop the entire system.
The Agile approach is done in increments.
So, if we're going increment by increment, where are we going?
Where is the endpoint?
Users may want or expect this information upfront and early,
or they may not even approve the project.
They need to know about how big is it going to be
and how long is it going to take?
So on approach, you can still maybe take the Agile approach,
and you could use Release 1 to leverage the Project
Definition Document and build up the estimates based on the
tools and techniques in module 2 and 3.
That would be an approach as well.
The customer or product manager prioritizes the feature set.
That's produced from the outcome of Release 1.
So Release 1 is not software,
Release 1 is a high-level estimate of the entire system and a
high-level schedule of the entire system,
leveraging the artifacts from the Project Definition Document.
And maybe Release 2 through 'n' are actually the
implementations of the features themselves. Okay, in the next section we'll look at Agile estimating techniques.